Feature/block11 Deploy pipeline (#40)
devonfw/hangar: documentation/azure-devops/setup-deploy-pipeline.asciidoc

= Setting up the Deploy Pipeline

In this section we will create a deploy pipeline on Azure DevOps to deploy the application on kubernetes cluster. This pipeline will be configured to be triggered manually or triggered by a package pipeline depending on the branch.

The creation of the pipeline will follow the project workflow, so a new branch named `feature/deploy-pipeline` will be created, the YAML file for the pipeline and the manifests files for deploying into the cluster will be pushed to it.

Then, a Pull Request (PR) will be created in order to merge the new branch into the appropriate branch (provided in `-b` flag). The PR will be automatically merged if the repository policies are met. If the merge is not possible, either the PR URL will be shown as output, or it will be opened in your web browser if using `-w` flag.

> The script located at `/scripts/pipelines/azure-devops/pipeline_generator.sh` will automatically create new branch,create a deploy pipeline based on a YAML template appropriate for the project manifests files, create the Pull Request, and if it is possible, merge this new branch into the specified branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script located at `/scripts/pipelines/azure-devops/pipeline_generator.sh` will automatically this create new branch, create a deploy pipeline based on a YAML template appropriate for the project manifests files, create the Pull Request, and if it is possible, merge this new branch into the specified branch.
```
```suggestion
The script located at `/scripts/pipelines/azure-devops/pipeline_generator.sh` will automatically create new branch,create a deploy pipeline based on a YAML template appropriate for the project manifests files, create the Pull Request, and if it is possible, merge this new branch into the specified branch.
```

* This script will commit and push the corresponding YAML template into your repository, so please be sure your local repository is up-to-date (i.e you have pulled the latest changes with `git pull`).

== Creating the pipeline using provided script

=== Usage
```
pipeline_generator.sh \
  -c <config file path> \
  -n <pipeline name> \
  -d <project local path> \
  --deploy-files <deploy files> \
  --deploy-cluster <deploy cluster name> \
  --secrets-value <secretsValue> \
  --package-pipeline-name <package pipeline name> \
  [-b <branch>] \
  [-w]
```
NOTE:  The config file for the deploy pipeline is located at `/scripts/pipelines/azure-devops/templates/deploy/deploy-pipeline.cfg`.

=== Flags
```
-c  --config-file             [Required] Configuration file containing pipeline definition.
-n  --pipeline-name           [Required] Name that will be set to the pipeline.
-d  --local-directory         [Required] Local directory of your project (the path should always be using '/' and not '\').
    --deploy-files            [Required] Path inside the remote repository where the manifest YAML files are located.

>     --deploy-cluster          [Required] Name of the kubernetes cluster, AKS or EKS.

Reviewer: Not exactly the name of the cluster but the environment, change the description of the flag.

>     --deploy-cluster          [Required] Name of the kubernetes cluster, AKS or EKS.

Reviewer: Not exactly the name of the cluster but the environment, change the description of the flag.

Author: done

    --secrets-name                       Name of the secrets.
    --package-pipeline-name   [Required] Name of the Package pipeline.
-b  --target-branch                      Name of the branch to which the Pull Request will target. PR is not created if the flag is not provided.
-w                                       Open the Pull Request on the web browser if it cannot be automatically merged. Requires -b flag.
```

=== Examples

==== Quarkus project

```

> ./pipeline_generator.sh -c ./templates/deploy/deploy-pipeline.cfg -n quarkus-project-deploy -d C:/Users/$USERNAME/Desktop/quarkus-project --deploy-files manifest-path --deploy-cluster deploy-cluster-name --package-pipeline-name package-pipeline-name -b develop -w

Reviewer: ```suggestion
./pipeline_generator.sh -c ./templates/deploy/deploy-pipeline.cfg -n quarkus-project-deploy -d C:/Users/$USERNAME/Desktop/quarkus-project --deploy-files k8s-files --deploy-cluster EKS --package-pipeline-name quarkus-project-package -b develop -w
```
```suggestion
./pipeline_generator.sh -c ./templates/deploy/deploy-pipeline.cfg -n quarkus-project-deploy -d C:/Users/$USERNAME/Desktop/quarkus-project --deploy-files manifest-path --deploy-cluster deploy-cluster-name --package-pipeline-name package-pipeline-name -b develop -w
```

> ./pipeline_generator.sh -c ./templates/deploy/deploy-pipeline.cfg -n quarkus-project-deploy -d C:/Users/$USERNAME/Desktop/quarkus-project --deploy-files manifest-path --deploy-cluster deploy-cluster-name --package-pipeline-name package-pipeline-name -b develop -w

Reviewer: ```suggestion
./pipeline_generator.sh -c ./templates/deploy/deploy-pipeline.cfg -n quarkus-project-deploy -d C:/Users/$USERNAME/Desktop/quarkus-project --deploy-files k8s-files --deploy-cluster EKS --package-pipeline-name quarkus-project-package -b develop -w
```
```suggestion
./pipeline_generator.sh -c ./templates/deploy/deploy-pipeline.cfg -n quarkus-project-deploy -d C:/Users/$USERNAME/Desktop/quarkus-project --deploy-files manifest-path --deploy-cluster deploy-cluster-name --package-pipeline-name package-pipeline-name -b develop -w
```

= Setting up the Deploy Pipeline

In this section we will create a deploy pipeline on Azure DevOps to deploy the application on kubernetes cluster. This pipeline will be configured to be triggered manually or triggered by a package pipeline depending on the branch.

The creation of the pipeline will follow the project workflow, so a new branch named `feature/deploy-pipeline` will be created, the YAML file for the pipeline and the manifests files for deploying into the cluster will be pushed to it.

Then, a Pull Request (PR) will be created in order to merge the new branch into the appropriate branch (provided in `-b` flag). The PR will be automatically merged if the repository policies are met. If the merge is not possible, either the PR URL will be shown as output, or it will be opened in your web browser if using `-w` flag.

The script located at `/scripts/pipelines/azure-devops/pipeline_generator.sh` will automatically create the new branch, create a deploy pipeline based on a YAML template appropriate for the project manifests files, create the Pull Request, and if it is possible, merge this new branch into the specified branch.

> NOTE: The deploy pipeline will fail if the package pipeline executed on the same commit has failed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The deploy pipeline will fail if the package pipeline executed on the same commit has failed.

NOTE: The deploy pipeline will fail if the provisioning pipeline failed or does not exist.
```

== Prerequisites

> * If it is private container registry, create secret for container registry to pull image from private repository. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If the images are stored in a private container registry, create the corresponding secrets to pull images from it.
```

> NOTE: Use `--secrets-name` flag to add extra secrets script to pull image from private container registry .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Use `--secrets-name` flag to add extra secrets script to pull images from private container registry .
```

* This script will commit and push the corresponding YAML template into your repository, so please be sure your local repository is up-to-date (i.e you have pulled the latest changes with `git pull`).

== Creating the pipeline using provided script

=== Usage
```
pipeline_generator.sh \
  -c <config file path> \
  -n <pipeline name> \
  -d <project local path> \
  --package-pipeline-name <package pipeline name> \

>   --aks-provision-pipeline-name \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  [--aks-provision-pipeline-name <aks provisionig pipeline name>] \
```

  --deploy-cluster <deploy environment name> \

>   --k8s-namespace \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  --k8s-namespace <namespace> \
```

  --deploy-files <deploy files> \ 

>   --secrets-name <secretsValue> \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  [--secrets-name <secretsValue>] \
```

    --package-pipeline-name         [Required] Name of the Package pipeline.
    --aks-provision-pipeline-name   [Required, if deployment in Azure] Azure AKS provision pipeline name.
    --deploy-cluster                [Required] Deployment environment, AKS or EKS.
    --k8s-namespace                 [Required] kubernetes namespace.
    --deploy-files                  [Required] Path inside the remote repository where the manifest YAML files are located.  
    --secrets-name                  [Required, if private registry] Name of the secrets.
-b  --target-branch                            Name of the branch to which the Pull Request will target. PR is not created if the flag is not provided.
-w                                             Open the Pull Request on the web browser if it cannot be automatically merged. Requires -b flag.
```

=== Examples

==== Quarkus project

```
./pipeline_generator.sh -c ./templates/deploy/deploy-pipeline.cfg -n quarkus-project-deploy -d C:/Users/$USERNAME/Desktop/quarkus-project --package-pipeline-name quarkus-project-package --deploy-cluster EKS --k8s-namespace hangar --deploy-files k8s-files  -b develop -w
```

> CAUTION: Remember to write the path to the local repository with '/' and not '\' on Windows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
